EasyAI-PHP
==========

About The Project
-----------------

EasyAI-PHP is an open-source initiative designed to significantly simplify the entry into artificial intelligence for PHP-developers. Based on PHP 8.1+, this project integrates advanced AI models and utilities, allowing developers to incorporate complex AI functionalities with minimal coding.

Key Features
------------

*   **Multiple AI Models**: Incorporates OpenAI's GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Claude 3 (Opus, Sonnet & Haiku), along with Gemini 1.0 & 1.5 models.
*   **AI Utilities**: Offers a variety of helpers such as vector databases from Pinecone and embeddings through OpenAI, streamlining the integration of advanced AI features into your projects.
*   **Minimal Coding Requirement**: Designed to minimize the coding effort needed on your part, thanks to the numerous ready-to-use helpers.

Getting Started
---------------

Install the project using Composer:
```
composer require hosonode/easyai-php dev-master
```

Usage
---------------

> [!NOTE]
> To streamline your setup, our PHP repository recognizes OpenAI API keys stored in two default locations: `getenv('OPENAI_API_KEY')` or `$_ENV['OPENAI_API_KEY']`. Simply add your OpenAI key to your ENV file, and no additional configuration is necessary. We also use `$_ENV` because frameworks like Symfony typically disable `getenv` by default.

### ðŸ’¬ Usage of `OpenAIChat`

If you want to use the default model, this is enough, so not a lof ot code:
```php
use EasyAI\Chat\OpenAIChat; // Using OpenAI Chat

// here is the code to call OpenAI API
$chat = new OpenAIChat();
$response = $chat->generateText('What is the population of Tokyo area, answer with only a number.');
// $response = "37 million"
```

If you want to select a specific modal, you need to use the Config & Enums:
```php
use EasyAI\OpenAIConfig; // Using OpenAI Config
use EasyAI\Chat\OpenAIChat; // Using OpenAI Chat
use EasyAI\Chat\Enums\OpenAIChatModel; // Using Enmus OpenAIChatModel

// e.g. in dependencyInjection
$config = new OpenAIConfig();
$config->apiKey = $_ENV['OTHER_KEY']; // Here you can define your key (as default we are using getenv('OPENAI_API_KEY') or $_ENV['OPENAI_API_KEY'])
$config->model = OpenAIChatModel::Gpt35Turbo->getModelName(); // Here you can define the model
$chat = new OpenAIChat($config);

// here is the code to call OpenAI API
$response = $chat->generateText('What is the population of Tokyo area, answer with only a number.');
// $response = "37 million"
```

Right now you can choose these enums:
```php
/* Currently points to gpt-3.5-turbo-0125. */
OpenAIChatModel::Gpt35Turbo => 'gpt-3.5-turbo',

/* Currently points to gpt-4-0613. See continuous model upgrades. */
OpenAIChatModel::Gpt4 => 'gpt-4',

/* GPT-4 Turbo preview model. Currently points to gpt-4-0125-preview. */
OpenAIChatModel::Gpt4TurboPreview => 'gpt-4-turbo-preview',

/* Currently points to gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09. */
OpenAiChatModel::Gpt4Turbo => 'gpt-4-turbo',
```
Here you can find out which exact model is currently being used.
[https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/continuous-model-upgrades](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/continuous-model-upgrades)

### â†”ï¸ Usage of `EmbeddingGenerator\OpenAI`

#### Explanation of Embedding
An "embedding" is a vector representation of text that captures semantic meanings of the words or phrases. These vectors are generated by deep learning models and can be used in machine learning applications to compare texts, search for similar content, or feed into other machine learning models for tasks like classification or clustering. Each component of the vector represents a dimension of the text's meaning, allowing the model to understand and process text similarly to how humans do but in a numerical form.

Usage of EmbeddingGenerator\OpenAI
This section covers the different classes available for generating embeddings using OpenAI models. Below is a table summarizing the key details of each available class.

| Class | Model | Embedding size |
| --- | --- | --- |
| OpenAIADA002EmbeddingGenerator | text-embedding-ada-002 | 1536 |
| OpenAI3SmallEmbeddingGenerator | text-embedding-3-small | 1536 |
| OpenAI3LargeEmbeddingGenerator | text-embedding-3-large | 3072 |

Source: [https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings)

Using the right class to pick one of the models:
```php
use EasyAI\Embeddings\EmbeddingGenerator\OpenAI\OpenAI3SmallEmbeddingGenerator; // Using OpenAI3SmallEmbeddingGenerator

// Embedding
$embeddingGenerator = new OpenAI3SmallEmbeddingGenerator();
$embedding = $embeddingGenerator->embedText('Your text string to embed');
```

Roadmap
=======

Completed Features
------------------

- [x] **OpenAI GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 Helpers**:
- [x] **Embedding Helpers**: With OpenAI

In Progress
-----------

- [ ] **Claude 3 (Opus, Sonnet & Haiku) Helpers**:
- [ ] **Pinecone Vector Databases Helpers**:

Planned Features
----------------
- [ ] **Multi-language Helpers**: With DeepL & GPT 3.5 + GPT 4
- [ ] **BunnyCDn Helper**:
- [ ] **Gemini 1.0 & 1.5 Helpers**:
- [ ] **Zyte API Helper**:
- [ ] **PageSpeed Insights API Helper**:

FAQ
===

### Q1: Why using EasyAi-PHP and not OpenAI PHP SDK

**A1:** If you are an experienced developer and want to use many features of OpenAI, the OpenAI PHP SDK might be right for you. However, if you want to make simple requests to the OpenAI interface with very few lines of code, our repo is the right one for you, as we have programmed many helpers that you can use many AI and PHP helpers to improve your project.
Many studies and research papers also show that you should use many different AI agents to do different tasks, each AI has its strengths, weaknesses, functions, etc.. Therefore, it would be very difficult to familiarize yourself with all AIs, which is why we offer a kind of AI framework for you here.

Contributing
------------

We highly encourage community contributions. Whether you're a developer using our helpers or someone looking to enhance the functionalities of EasyAI-PHP, your contributions are welcome. This collaborative effort benefits everyone involved.

Open-Source Projects Used
-------------------------
This project utilizes several community-driven packages to power its features:

*   [openai-php/client](https://github.com/openai-php/client): For interfacing with OpenAI APIs.
*   [pinecone-php](https://github.com/probots-io/pinecone-php): For integrating vector databases.
*   [BunnyWay/BunnyCDN.PHP.Storage](https://github.com/BunnyWay/BunnyCDN.PHP.Storage): For cheap HDD & SSD storange + CDN
*   [deepl-php](https://github.com/DeepLcom/deepl-php): For translation services.
*   [LLPhant](https://github.com/theodo-group/LLPhant): An inspiration for our repo

Support
-------

For AI-related inquiries, contact our HosonoAI support at support@hosono.ai. For service-related questions, reach out to support@hosono.de. We offer support in German, English, Japanese, Russian, and Italian.

Sponsored by
------------
*   **HosonoDE**: An e-commerce agency serving mainly D-A-CH (Germany / Austria / Switzerland) customers.
*   **HosonoAI**: A platform that enables easy, code-free creation of texts for e-commerce and marketing.
